I implemented this project using HTML, CSS, and Javascript. On the front-end, I also took advantage of Bootstrap to improve the user interface. I originally got the idea to make a pomodoro timer app because I have used many in the past, but each one always seemed to have at least one feature that I wish I could change. So I figured that it would be best to integrate my favorite parts of each pomodoro timer app that I’ve used into one personalized project.

At its core, the program consists of a basic timer function written in javascript that references objects in the DOM to update the text on the page to reflect changing numbers. Using the setInterval() method, the numbers are updated every second. While the timer is active, the javascript code loops a sound of a ticking clock to simulate studying with a real timer (and to remind students that they are on a time schedule).

Also, I opted for a minimalist user interface that consisted of only 2 or 3 colors. I contribute to a consistent user experience by adding tooltips to each button, so that when a user hovers over any of the four buttons at the bottom of the screen, text appears describing what the button will make the program do. Similarly, I’ve added a modal window to replace the traditional browser dialogue box. When the user clicks on the stop button, the modal window appears and prompts the user to confirm whether or not they really want to interrupt their session (and procrastinate) or to return to the current session. I made sure to add a transition effect to the modal window, so it didn’t just abruptly appear. I did this by connecting the javascript code to the visibility CSS attribute of the modal window.

Finally, I did not want users to feel like they were just interacting with text boxes and buttons, so I made sure to implement many sounds. As a result, every implementation of sound in the program involves the javascript code reacting to HTML events. For example, there are several places in the code where the HTML event “onclick()” is used, signifying to the javascript code to run a function when that button is clicked. Overall, while I was going for a minimalist UI, I wanted the UX to feel futuristic, so each button and form is linked with sound effects from a sci-fi spaceship controls soundpack, adding to a futuristic feel.
