Welcome to Productivity Panther. If you’re looking to be an organized student or faculty member, you’re in the right place. To access Productivity Panther, unzip the documentation into CS50 IDE. Afterwards, change the directory to prodPanther/ then execute http-server in the console. Once the link to the server appears, click on it and you should be redirected to a page titled “Index of/”. Find and click “index.html” and you should promptly be redirected to the application’s homepage.

Once you have accessed the timer, you will see a digital interface with a predetermined amount of time on it. This number represents how long your work sessions will be. Click on the gear on the bottom of the screen (farthest to the right). From there, you should have access to the settings menu, where you can update the duration of your work sessions, short breaks, and long breaks.

This timer operates based on the pomodoro method. In other words, when the user starts the timer with the play button to the far left, they should be using that time to do focused work, without any distractions. Once the timer runs out, the user will be notified that it’s time for a short break (above the timer), and will click the play button again to start the break session. This repeats until the user has completed four work sessions. After the fourth work session, the user is rewarded with a long break session. The end of the long break session signifies the beginning of a new pomodoro session. Feel free to keep track of how many work sessions you’ve completed by reading the text below the timer.

Congratulations, you’ve just completed your first pomodoro! Before you go, don’t forget to check for any hidden easter eggs. If you haven’t already, make sure to press the timer to hear the Productivity Panther roar! Also, if you’re feeling nostalgic for older operating systems (like I was for windows XP while making this), feel free to spam the play button until you’re denied access to hear a familiar error sound. Finally, the app is filled with other interesting sounds, so make sure to have your speaker on, or you’ll miss out on the full experience.

Productivity Panther Demonstration YouTube Link: https://youtu.be/qZkl1tsJay8